\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename make-initrd.info
@settitle make-initrd @value{VERSION} manual
@c %**end of header

@paragraphindent none
@set UPDATED April 19, 2010

@copying
This manual covers make-initrd, version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2009, 2010 Alexey Gladkov.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with the Front-Cover Texts being ``A GNU Manual,''
and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation
License.''

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have the freedom to
copy and modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF
supports it in developing GNU and promoting software freedom.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Make-initrd
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Alexey Gladkov (@email{gladkov.alexey@@gmail.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@node Top
@top Make-initrd

This file documents make-initrd (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).

Make-initrd is an uevent-driven initramfs infrastructure based around udev.

@menu
* Overview::               Overview of make-initrd.
* Requires::               Programs and libraries needed to run.
* Configuration::          Parametes and Goals.
* Index::                  Index of Chapters and Variables.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview
@cindex Chapter

The initramfs has one purpose in life -- getting the rootfs mounted
so that we can transition to the real rootfs.

Make-initrd -- a program to creation initramfs. Logically, the program
can be divided into three parts:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Image generator;
@item
Automatic configuration detector;
@item
A set of programs run inside the image.
@end itemize

If you have problems with `make-initrd' or think you've found a bug,
please report it to the developers; we cannot promise to do anything but
we might well want to fix it.

@xref{bug-report}, for more info.


@node Requires
@chapter Requires
@cindex Chapter

make-initrd uses @acronym{GNU} make to establish and properly
maintain the relationship between modules.

Most scripts use libshell, a set of functions frequently used
in shell scripts.

kinit-utils is a set of tools from klibc ported to glibc.
These tools have broad enough functionality and small size.


@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration
@cindex Chapter

Configuration file for make-initrd is /etc/initrd.mk. In essence,
the configuration file is a Makefile. Actually part of it.

You can generate multiple images for one kernel version (for example
general, failsafe and rescue). For that reason /etc/initrd.mk.d
directory is used. In this directory each file with the `.mk'
extension is regarded as a configuration file.

@menu
* Variables::
* Features::
* Goals::
@end menu


@node Variables, Features,, Configuration
@chapter Variables
@cindex Chapter

@unnumberedsubsec KERNEL
@cindex KERNEL
Specifies kernel version for corresponding modules in the image.

Default: $(uname -r)

@unnumberedsubsec IMAGE_SUFFIX
@cindex IMAGE_SUFFIX
Specifies suffix for the image. This parameter is useful
if multiple initrd images are generated for one kernel version.

@unnumberedsubsec IMAGEFILE
@cindex IMAGEFILE
Specifies output filename for the image.

Default: $(BOOTDIR)/initrd-$(KERNEL)$(IMAGE_SUFFIX).img

@unnumberedsubsec COMPRESS
@cindex COMPRESS
Determines compress method for the image.

Valid values are: gzip, bzip2, lzma, lzo.

@unnumberedsubsec FEATURES
@cindex FEATURES
This parameter lists the features of the image.
This list can be specified in any order.

@xref{Features}, for more info.

@unnumberedsubsec AUTODETECT
@cindex AUTODETECT
This variable contains the list of subsystems which add
appropriate kernel modules and features automatically.

@itemize @bullet
@item
root - finds modules needed to access root filesystem device
and the filesystem itself (if they are not added in the kernel);
@item
resume - finds modules needed to access hibernation image device.
This is useful when the device is encrypted or in an unexpected location.
@item
common - adds features for general use. Don't disable this feature
unless you know what you are doing.
@item
net - adds kernel modules for network devices (netboot).
@item
kbd - adds modules for the keyboard.
@end itemize

@unnumberedsubsec MODULES_ADD
@cindex MODULES_ADD
The parameter lists the names of modules to be added to the image
so that the needed ones could be autoloaded by udev when it starts.

@unnumberedsubsec MODULES_PRELOAD
@cindex MODULES_PRELOAD
The parameter lists the names of modules to be added to the image
and unconditionally loaded before udev start.

@unnumberedsubsec MODULES_LOAD
@cindex MODULES_LOAD
The parameter lists the names of modules to be added to the image
and unconditionally loaded after udev start.

@unnumberedsubsec VERBOSE
@cindex VERBOSE
Print a message for each action.

@unnumberedsubsec FIRMWARE_DIRS
@cindex FIRMWARE_DIRS
This parameter describes the list of directories with firmware.

@unnumberedsubsec PUT_FILES
@cindex PUT_FILES
This parameter describes the list of files that need
to be put in the image initrd. The files are copied
with the same path as the original file.

@unnumberedsubsec PUT_DIRS
@cindex PUT_DIRS
This parameter describes the list of directories to be
copied into the image.


@node Features, Goals, Variables, Configuration
@chapter Features
@cindex Chapter

This is the part of functionality that is executed during
image creation or subsequent boot employing it.

Follow features adds the ability to mount rootfs:

@itemize @bullet
@item
luks - from LUKS partition;
@item
lvm - from LVM partition;
@item
nfsroot - over NFS;
@item
raid - from RAID partition.
@end itemize

The Follow features adds the functionality not for to mount rootfs,
but for image generation:

@itemize @bullet
@item
bootsplash - adds console splash animations;
@item
compress - compress image after generation;
@item
cleanup - remove all working directories.
@end itemize

Most features are automatically determined and shouldn't be set manually.


@node Goals,, Features, Configuration
@chapter Goals
@cindex Chapter

There is a number of specific goals which are very useful
in the generation of the image.

@unnumberedsubsec guess-config
@cindex guess-config
This goal prints the intended configuration on stdout.
It is compiled based on your current configuration and
the feature list from AUTODETECT variable.

@unnumberedsubsec @anchor{bug-report}bug-report
@cindex bug-report
This goal collects system configuration data and puts those
into an archive. If you have any problems with make-initrd
this goal will help to gather the information necessary for
developers to diagnose and fix bugs.


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
